#summary Jupiter User's Guide.

_This guide assumes that the user is familiar with the Eclipse IDE. _

= 1.0 Introduction =
Jupiter is an open-source code review tool that has been developed for a very popular IDE called [http://www.eclipse.org Eclipse].  Jupiter easily plugs into Eclipse and allows for its users to faciliate code reviews on existing code.

= 2.0 Installation =
== 2.1 Prerequisites ==

Jupiter requires Java 5 or newer and Eclipse 3.3 (Europa) or newer.

== 2.2 Installing Jupiter from the Jupiter Update Site ==

The best way to install Jupiter is by using the Software Update mechanism in Eclipse. This feature enables you to install or update Jupiter easily when new versions are released.

Select "Help | Software Updates | Find and Install..", select the "Search for new features to install" option, and then add the update site by clicking on the "Add Update Site" button. Provide a name such as "Jupiter Update Server" and use the URL http://jupiter-eclipse-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/site/.

Check the newly created Jupiter site, then follow the wizards to complete the installation process.

== 2.3 Installing Jupiter from downloaded jar file ==

Get the latest Jupiter release from http://code.google.com/p/jupiter-eclipse-plugin/downloads/list.  You should get a jar file with a name similar to {{{edu.hawaii.ics.csdl.jupiter_<version>.jar}}}.

Place the downloaded jar file in your eclipse/plugins directory.

Jupiter will be available the next time Eclipse starts up.

== 2.4 Uninstallation ==

To unistall the Jupiter plug-in, please follow the instructions carefully. Otherwise errors may occur (these errors will be shown in the error log of Eclipse).

 #. Make sure all Jupiter related extensions are closed:
   #. Close Jupiter view by unchecking "Jupiter" in the "Window | Customize Perspective | Window > Show View ".
   #. Close Jupiter action button by unchecking "Jupiter" in the "Window | Customize Perspective | Other". 
 #. Select "Help | Software Updates | Manage Configuration...", click the installed "Jupiter Feature..." by traversing "Eclipse Platform | file:...".
 #. Select the "Disable" link and follow the instructions then restart Eclipse.
 #. Select "Help | Software Updates | Manage Configuration...", click "Show disabled features" button in the third icon from the left of the main icon bar in order to see the disabled Jupiter plug-in.
 #. Select the disabled Jupiter plug-in and click the "Uninstall" link, follow the given instructions, and restart Eclipse. 

= 3.0 Preparing a Review: Review ID Creation =
A Review ID needs to be created for each code review.  Follow the following steps to create a new Review ID:

 #. Right-click on the project that will be reviewed and select 'Properties'.  
 #. The Properties dialog will appear and you will see a 'Review' option in the list.  Select the 'Review' option.
 #. A table of all the Review IDs available will be shown along with buttons on the right.  Select the 'New...' button to create a new Review ID.
 #. After 'New...' is pressed, a wizard will appear.  The wizard will walk you through the creation of the Review ID.  Two basic things that the wizard allows you to do are configure the files that should be reviewed and define a set of reviewers.

After the Review ID is created the .jupiter file for the project will be updated.  Everyone participating in the review will need to update and get the updated .jupiter file.

= 4.0 Conducting a Review: Individual -> Team -> Rework =
= 5.0 Legacy Support =

If you require Jupiter for Eclipse 3.2.x you can get it at http://jupiter-eclipse-plugin.googlecode.com/files/csdl.jupiter_3.2.1.zip.  It only requires Java 1.4.